[SOUND] In this video,
we will talk about tracking system.
The tracking system is the first
system of the detectors and
stands before particle
collision area of a detector.
It's responsible for particle trajectories
recognition and their parameters estimation.
In additional,
the system has a magnet which
deflects particles, and
allows to measure the particle momentum.
The particle trajectories estimated in the
tracking system are extrapolated to the
the ring-imaging Cherenkov detector,
calorimeters, and
muon chambers, and
are used by these systems.
The ring imaging Cherenkov detector
also takes particle momentum
measured in the tracking system
to identify the particle type.
We will talk about that in the next video,
but
now consider how
the tracking system works.
The tracking system has several
layers of sensors, and when
a particle flies through these layers,
it remains responses in the sensors.
These response's are also called as hits.
Hits allow to recognize particle
tracks and estimate their parameters.
The problem of recognition hits
that belong to the same track
is called track pattern recognition.
There are variety of track pattern
recognition methods in high
energy physics.
And the most popular are methods based
on hough transform and Kalman filter.
Also range of track pattern recognition
methods, based on Hopfield neural networks,
and were developed in 1980s.
The most popular of these methods
are Denby-Peterson method and
cellular automaton.
They are more sophisticated than
the Kalman filter-based methods and
require more computational resources.
But on the other hand, they provide better
quality of the track pattern recognition.
Especially in high track
density experiments.
Moreover, there are a lot of
modern machine learning methods for
clustering and classification,
including convolution neural networks and
recurrent neural networks that are also
successfully applied in this problem.
For an example,
neural networks are used to classify
recognized hit combination
into correct or wrong.
Recurrent neural networks
consider hit sequences
in the tracking system layers to
predict the next hit of the track.
However, speed of the track pattern
recognition is one of the most important
aspects, and this is a challenge for
the machine learning approaches.
And then to this week, you will find
references to papers about machine
learning in the track
particle recognition.
Except particle track recognition,
the tracking system also
measures particle momentum.
To do this,
the tracking system has a magnet.
Magnetic field deflects charged particles.
It's known from physics that
in the uniform magnetic field,
a particle flies on a circle, and
the radius of this circle is proportional
to the magnetic field, and to the particle
momentum as it's shown on the slide.
So to estimate a particle momentum,
it's needed to somehow
measure radius of the circle.
To do this, there are several additional
sensor layers after the magnet.
These layers estimate track
parameters after the magnet.
Knowing particle track slopes before and
after the magnet,
we can calculate the particle
deflection in the magnetic field and
estimate its radius, and
as result, momentum.
Consider several tracking system examples.
In LHCb, the tracking system has
the same form as on the previous slide.
The magnet of the system is
shown in the center of the figure.
The magnetic field deflects the charged
particles, shown as colored lines.
At the LHCb magnetic field is not uniform but
its shape is known,
and allows to estimate a particle
momentum based on its deflection.
Also, there are several layers of
sensors before and after the magnet.
Track hits in these layers are marked
by blue and magenta colors.
Notice that there are two sets
of the layers before the magnet.
The first one is exactly
before the magnet.
These layers are used to measure particle
deflection in the magnetic field.
The second set of sensor layers
is in the collision area at
the beginning of the detector.
These sensors provide high
precision of track parameters
estimation to be able to
combine particles into decays.
Then these particles are used
to estimate properties of
mother particles correspond
to these decays.
In the Atlas experiment the tracking
system has a cylindrical shape.
The sensor layers are located
inside uniform magnetic field.
So particle tracks are circles parts.
Hits of these tracks are shown
as color dots in the figure.
This tracking system have several
groups of sensor layers with different
precision of hit coordinates measurement.
As the most precise sensors are in
the center of the tracking system,
where the track's density is the highest.
These sensors are silicon pixels,
that are similar to those
used in photo cameras.
All tracks in the figure
originate only from two decays and
silicon pixels are able
to recognize these decays.
However, these sensors are very expensive
to use them to cover large volumes.
So there are silicon strips and
straw tubes with gas inside in the outer
regions of the tracking system.
The sensors are more cheaper but
provide to lower precision of
hit coordinates measurement.
In the next video,
we will see how particle tracks and
their momentum estimated in the tracking
system are used in other detector system.
[SOUND]